Welcome back.
The next code editor we're gonna look at is a very very popular one.
It's completely free.
So I think right now it's probably the most popular code editor out there in the community.
And I think you'll see why we can download it based on your machine so you can pick whatever computer
you have.
In my case we'll download it for Mac and it has a really really good get started.
Guy again all these tools have a lot of information online for them.
So again if you get stuck with downloads there's always a way for you to figure out how to solve these.
Now keep in mind with code editors it doesn't just mean these are for Python both Sublime Text and Visual
Studio code can write any sort of language programming language that you want.
Like myself I usually like writing javascript as well so I can go back and forth between different languages
but still use the same tools.
So let's open up this code.
We're going to install this and again on Windows will be very similar you'll go through an installer
my case I'll add it to my applications my case it should appear somewhere around here click on that.
And there you go.
We have visual studio code.
There's a lot more going on than sublime text.
It's why I actually prefer Sublime Text there's just the less things happening on the screen but you
can see over here that has some really nice features.
For example we can create a new file here and we can just create let's say python file.
So I'm going to command s and safe and just call it Hello Dot pie because we want to create a python
file you'll see right away when I do that it's going to tell me Hey there's no Python interpreter selected
you need to select a python interpreter.
And luckily we actually learned what that means right.
So let's select a python interpreter and look at that.
It tells me that I have a choice because we've downloaded version three point seven but on my Mac I
also have the pre installed two point seven.
So luckily Visual Studio code tells me hey which one do you want to use.
And I'm going to say I want to use Python three.
There you go and I get another hint it says hey we also have a litter available for python.
Do you want to install that extension as well.
We'll get to that in a bit.
But for now let's focus on this.
If I do print Hello.
Getting really creative with my code here.
You see that again.
I have syntax highlighting everything looks good.
If I miss a bracket what happens.
Do I get in years.
What if I just write some gibberish here I'm not getting anything because well I don't have this pilot
installed but again we'll get to lynching in a bit the cool thing about Visual Studio code is that you
also have the terminal right here.
You can actually if this isn't open for you you can just click terminal and just say new terminal now
in here I'm going to close this for now I can run my Python code and let's make sure it is just a print
I can say Python Hello Dot pi.
I click Run.
I didn't save this I'll make sure I save it.
So it's the new version and run this again Python Hello your PI look at that it's all working now up
to this point.
We have this print Hello.
We also know that we're running Python version three point seven.
You can see here if I click on here I can select what interpreter I want to use and it also gives us
a few tips such as Hey Lynch your pilot is not installed so let's install pilot pilot is a.
That is it's almost as a spell checker for our code and letting us know is this syntax right.
And there are many versions of winters available for Python pilot.
Just happens to be one of the most popular and yes code by default suggests pilot.
So let's install that once that's installed you see over here that everything is going through and now
let's see if this works.
So let's save this file.
I'm going to say file save.
And if I click on problems here.
There are no problems detected so far but we know that the print should have brackets around it.
So what we want to do here is go to view command pallet and we see right away that it says Python enabled
lending.
If I type Python here the python installer that we had at the beginning when we installed V.S. code
installed a whole bunch of shortcuts and tools for us to use such as enable lending.
So let's click on that and I'm going to say.
If I save look at that in my problems it says missing parentheses and call to print.
Did you meet.
Did you mean print.
Hello.
I also get this little underline and it tells me exactly a what print does but also telling me what
errors I need to fix.
And you see that it's a pilot syntax error.
So again I can just fix that.
Nice and easy.
Now if I save there's no problems everything is running fine.
If I go to my terminal and do Python Hello Dot pie look at that.
Everything is working nicely so this problem's panel is really nice for your code to be told hey something's
wrong.
For example if I miss a bracket here and I save the problems is going to tell me Hey hey there's something
going on there's a syntax error and pilot is helping me solve that issue.
By the way you might be asking yourself how come my editor Vasco doesn't look like this.
For example if I go to extensions I have the Dracula official theme enable now which is a color theme
that I have for Visual Studio code and let's click on this over here and just and just say disable all
installed extensions you'll see that I just have a few extensions that allow my visual studio code to
be customized.
But in your case if you're just installing Visual Studio code it'll look something like this.
But by installing the python package with the pilot we now have a fully abled idea.
In a sense for us to write Python code I'll see in the next one.
Bob.